From: Mark Villar [mark.villar@unsw.edu.au]
Sent: Saturday, 6 December 2003 10:03 AM
To: William T.M. Dunsmuir
Subject: Script files tips and other issues

Hi William,

I forgot to mention these helpful hints at our meeting on Friday.

Splus:
There should be 4 or 5 pages of exploratory data plots for every script run.  
If you want to generate the GARCH / ARIMA diagnostic plots, at the bottom of 
the script, the code should read 

#plot(winegarch)#
#plot(winearima)#

I've left these out of the script run as it overwrites the previous EDA plots 
and they require the user to input

1 - to produce All graphs (12 pages in total) then 
0 - to Exit the input prompt, each time.

SAS:
Each code requires the user to Import Data first. The data files are text files 
and are stored in the same folder as the code. To import data, you must save it 
as the state's two letter abbreviation followed by either 'wine' or 'spir'. Eg. To save Iowa Spirits, you need to call it IASPIR

Case against GARCH:
Idaho wine is a special case - ARIMA seems to have worked as well as GARCH in 
terms of accounting for the autocorrelation of the squared residuals, shown in 
Figure 10 of Project report (p.36). This was the only case that GARCH was 
perhaps unnecessary.  All other cases required GARCH to remove the dependence 
in the squared residuals.  However most did not yield significantly different 
estimates for the step parameter as shown by the asterisks in Eileen's table.  
Note also that Idaho has two filtered pulse functions, at T=42 (intervention) 
and at T=274 (sudden surge in series).

Notation in Elaine's amended table:
In the last column where the GARCH model specifications are displayed x is the number of exogenous terms in the mean equation.  For Alabama wine 
these include (s1, s2, fp1, fp2, ctrl) because it had two interventions. Most 
models only had x=3, with the exception of New Hampshire (no filtered pulse). z shows the exogenous term(s) in the variance equation. Most models had none.

Hope this helps.  Have a good trip!

Mark
